Okay sooo I definitely got a little bit of a second hand high
> Yes. I just noticed this before I started typing
Getting that THC into my noggin usually does not go well for me. I am already an anxious and untrusting (paranoid?) person, and I dont really think that this is unwarranted.

For some reason I feel a lot more chill than I did last night. I am not sure what exactly was bothering me

Why tf is my coworker watching porn in the shower. lol

agh fuck. Now I am thinking about why porn is so *weird* (this is not the right word).

I need to fucking work with someone to *actually learn how to write*
> FUCK K K K K K K
> I think that maybe I was *given **trauma*** in the area of literature and writing because getting good at this stuff has something to do with my fate/destiny
>> I think SO GODDAMN MUCH
>>>JBP has said that you cannot really think without writing; that **writing** *is* **thinking**
>>>I am not sure if this is technically true but there is certainly value (an underlying truth) in this statement
>So, not too long ago (maybe a few months ago) I had an *emotional moment*.
>> i am not sure what triggered it, but I am sure it had something to do with my thoughts and emotions regarding ***higher education*** and feeling like I am really missing out.
>>> anyhow, I guess I was thinking about some of the teachers that I was not super disgusted with.
>>>> Carter came to mind and I considered reaching out to him
>>>>> to inquire about the possibility of me following a long with one of his classes.
>>>>>> this came after I realized how silly it would be to just outright 'tutor' me.

I am tempted to start ___ about this bullshit with people who just (for whatever reason) think (with any real level of depth) for themselves

09:40:28 wow cool okay I can timestamp with ctrl+alt+T (I programmed it myself)

09:41:12 the thing about obsidian that drive me crazy is that it has so many awesome plugins… and I have very little to no discipline

09:42:38 for instance, you can some how set up a plugin that with transcribe your voice notes ***LOCALLY***
09:43:19 honestly… ***why the fuck are we not shunning people for using Michael’s-soft Turd***
09:44:26 bro I am so funny for that
09:44:38 on another note, I drank 2 small carafes of sake and I feel great
09:45:10 and tired
09:45:22 also I took a Benadryl
09:45:33 For no good reason, I feel like that contributed to my better mood
09:45:57 because it helped me sleep

09:46:11welcome 2 Japan
09:46:21 thank you, The Strokes

09:46:34 I am realizing that I can be happy
09:46:47 now

10:03:24 lol I just fockin linked up with a seemingly amazing person on FB dating and I am super excited

10:04:08 I really like having the ability to quickly add a timestamp before I even start typing 10:04:42