%%06:31:48%% I am having a difficult time
%%06:32:59%% with my sense of spiritutality
like holy shit dude, I really dont know… anything…
%%06:34:15%%despite not having been alive for a considerable amount of time, I have been exposed to a lot of experiences, %%06:36:48%%most of them second hand. I think that most of the problems that I am terrified to face are coming from my odd upbringing. %%06:37:33%%I cannot help but feel that I had my childhood taken away from me. I believe that it is tautologically true that nobody is able to live through childhood with out accruing some kind of trauma
>- To try to raise a child without trauma, causes trauma; as that individual will have to go out into the world eventually and will not be able to integrate.
> - Furthermore, birth itself is traumatic.

%%06:46:38%%Woah, pretty cool, although… I did just fuck up what little muscle memory I *did* have. I mapped the double tapping of space to do a period followed by a space. I also made it so that when I hold space it outputs a comma followed by a space.
%%06:49:50%%It’s a cool proof of concept but it’s actually slowing me down
- %%06:51:12%% there is input lag on the normal space

%%06:53:04%% I think that I may have fixed the lag. It does seem to be faster to type now and I am make fewer mistakes. I think the next thing that I will do is remap Shift and Ctrl.

%%06:54:25%% It feels weird to be using Capslock… at all. For the longest time caps lock has been my least used key. Kind of cool having such a prominent position doing something useful .  Could/should I make a video about this?

%%06:58:38%% Okay so now I just fixed the lag on my new ShiftLock key. Set LShift Down to hold until lifted .  I swear, I just need to find my people and my place .  All I want to do is just make things better . Because we live in such complucated and advanced times , life is unneccessarily complicated

- - -

What am I going to do with my life? Right now all I really want is to be close with this thing that we refer to as God . Although , I really do not like referring to it as “God” . I really just want to do what is “right”

%%10:00:37%% damn… modern keyboards really need to be reworked
%%10:01:51%% holding keys really need to be added more functionality.
>like who the fuck ever holds down letter keys

