%%03:15:36%%man, I cause myself so much unnecessary dissapointment
I am focused on all the wrong things.

while out of town I made an abrupt decision to go to to a goodwill that was right next to the hotel that we were staying at. Ryan (my super awesome foreman) asked me what I know about the PS4 and if I knew if he would be able to connect his phone to it so he could type faster. I told him that he could likely find a keyboard for less than ten dollars at the goodwill. So this was in my mind at the time I decided to go get some dinner at the chic-fil-a. He said he wouldnt go because he thought they were closed, but on my way to the chic-fil-a I saw that they were open so I took a detour. Growing up my dad would take my siblings and I window shopping.

%%03:22:11%% at least I can probably sell this PS4 controller ant the chatpad for more than I spent on them.

My original idea was to combine the two and map them in ReWASD to make the best PC remote.
	%%03:23:47%% I have had this idea/obsession in my mind for some time now

%%03:24:20%% I am not sure why, but I have been obsessed with HIDs for as long as I can remember.

%%05:12:54%%so earlier I was going to write about my dissappointment with the PS4 controller because the mouse function in ReWASD for the sticks and gyro was not working as i had hoped it would.%%05:15:26%% Turns out that it works just fine

—
%%03:28:15%%Fuck. Why am I so neurotic?



%%03:32:59%% I just added a few plugins. I added a plugin that keep the line that is active in view. I added another plugin that dims the other sentences that I am not typing on. Hypothetically this should keep me from getting distracted. lol. We’ll see about that.

%%03:35:30%%I think it would *probably* be a good idea to learn to use VIM? I find the way that you switch in and out of VIM mode to be super annoying and cumbersome. I think I could get into it if I could configure VIM mode to toggle with the Caps Lock key. The Caps Lock key is actually hella dumb and it happens to exist in such a crucial area. You’d think that it would be more useful since it is in such an important space. Of course, normal people do not think about these things. They have sportball games and celebrity-gods to worry about.
%%03:40:16%%I set Shift+Enter to add a semi hidden timestamp. My vague intention was to allow me to track my habit of writing in a nonlinear fashion

%%03:41:41%%I think it would be funny if I studied the functionality and structure of Jordan Petterson’s Essay.app and turned it into an obsidian plugin.

%%03:42:45%% I seriously love this program so gosh darn much, it has limitless potential… I find myself wishing for it to be open sourced. It would be super awesome if you could just boot it up in a freaking webbrowser. Other people have asked for this functionality.

%%03:44:13%%Here are a few other things that would be AMAZING to have in Obsidian.
- better collaboration tools
	- live editing for groups of people