My mother is definitely a bonafide narcissist an I wish that there was something that I could do to help her. I have so much pain in my heart. There is so much resentment that I have towards her. I don't know I'll ever let it go or If I will ever be able to. I can see why my father cheated in her, not that it was okay for him to do that. My mother is so cold and so am I. She was never fit to be a mother.

Ive heard that being raised by a mother with a pathology such as hers causes brain damage. Fuck. i dont want to blame my impotencies on her, but it is important to understand that a lot of my issues stem from her inability to nurture. I guess it could be said that she has tried her best to be a good parent, but there is no way to measure that with any level of objectivity. Or at least it is less painful to live my life trying to believe that. She has **always** said this, but it's as they say; ***actions speak louder than words***. My mother didnt really put much effort into facilitating my self esteem. There was hardly any effort on her part in helping or encouraging me to engage in activities that spoke to my innate abilities, passions, or interests. I never had the chance to explore or pursue what I felt I could offer the world. Repeatedly I was ripped from situations in which I began to feel like I was starting to grow roots in. I was removed without my consent from environments that could have garnered self exploration and discovery. She never did anything to support the pursuit of anything that I held dear. She was and still is much mre interested in trying to live what she thinks she missed out on in her twenties. And I get it, she never got to be a kid. But neither did I, because of her immaturity.

Fuck, fuck, fuck.

By definition, I fucking hate my mother. She makes me sick.
Being around her is an unpleasant experience. Talking to her is so painful. She aquired brain damage due to her parents incompetencies and sefishness.

I want to have children of my own someday, but I fear that I will make all of the same mistakes that she did.

It makes sense for me to place more blame on her than my father. Females have the responsibility to pick mates that are able to provi
