# Ascendant is Gemini

Those born with Gemini rising see the world as a place to learn. You are curious about the people around You. %%Sounds similar to Sagittarius rising? Well it is, but there are some important differences. While Sagittarius seeks to expand Your mental and physical horizons in a broad sense, %%Gemini is mostly interested in moving about in Your social circles. These are people who love to ask questions, to move around freely, and to mingle. ==Definitely restless and often quick in physical expression, natives of the Gemini Ascendant exude an air of impatience even if You don't mean it==. In fact, there is a cleverness to Gemini Ascendants that can intimidate some, especially sensitive folk. ==Your facility with words can be a wonderful asset, although sometimes Gemini rising individuals identify too much with Your mental agility and forget, in Your personal interactions and communications, to nurture the people around You. A certain lack of warmth in presentation can be the result, and although this style is generally a facade, it is not immediately apparent to most==. People with, for example, predominant Water signs may feel a little ill at ease with Gemini rising people (that is, before You get to know You more personally), while strong Air types more fully appreciate the fun and cleverness of these individuals.

I have found two styles of presentation most common with Gemini rising people. One style is bubbly, changeable, talkative, and a little quirky. These natives are interesting and fun. You constantly explain things, whether it's Your own behavior and opinion or those of the world around You. Another distinct "style" is a rather cool and intellectual demeanor. These natives are often quite witty and clever, but You present Yourself in a less cheerful and changeable way than the first group. Your observations are sharp and the overall manner is a tad [[vocab.brusque]]. No matter the style, Gemini rising natives are given to analysis and making sense of Your world. Your powers of observation are well-developed, You are mentally active (more often than not, Your mind is racing!), and You almost always have something bright or witty to say. It is easy for individuals with this position to get sidetracked, as Your curiosity is large, Your mind is quick, and Your attention span rather short! As children, natives born with a Gemini Ascendant are often labeled as the intellectual, inquisitive, and perhaps odd child. Many feel Your upbringing lacked some warmth. In one-to-one relationships, Gemini rising people often seek a certain amount of personal freedom and space. You enjoy intellectual debates and exchanging ideas. Although You often demand a fair amount of freedom, You are often just as willing to give Your partners room to breathe.